# Skypager Monorepo

This is a Monorepo for a collection of Skypager packages and projects that are made from them.

## Usage

Clone this repo into a folder in your home directory and run npm install. This will install the `skypager-presets` libraries, and symlink a local `node_modules` folder.  This will allow all projects and packages to share the same set of dependencies, and take advantage of a shared build / test / develop toolchain that just works with zero configuration.

## CLI Tools

Running `skypager` is a way to run actions, exporters, and other commands within the context of a project.

```sh
# open up a project REPL
skypager console

# generate a JSON dump of the project entities
skypager run entities exporter --format json --output
```

Running `skypager-devpack` from within any project will load
a webpack environment within that project folder.

```sh
# serve
skypager-devpack start

# serve
skypager-devpack start --entry ./different/entry

# build
skypager-devpack build
```
## Dependency Management

This Monorepo automatically links to the `node_modules` of the `skypager-presets` package.  This lets us manage a gold standard set of dependencies for all projects and packages in the repo.  

Each project version is synchronized and tied to the Git SHA of the portfolio project.

## Documentation

Documentation for this Monorepo is generated from the written markdown documents in the `docs` folder and takes advantage of a lot of metadata and API queries that are generated by inspecting the `package.json` metadata, `git commit history` and other important elements that relate to the release environment.

## Tests

The test suite for each package and project can be ran from this central project repo.
